Replacing the Material 3 page with a more generic page (#8197)
flutter/website: src/development/ui/material.md

---
title: Material Design for Flutter
description: Learn about Material Design for Flutter.
---

> Material is a design system created by Google to
> help teams build high-quality digital experiences
> for Android, iOS, Flutter, desktop, and the web.
> 
> Material 3 is the latest generation of Material Design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Material Design is an open-source design system built and supported by Google designers and developers.

The latest version, Material 3, enables personal, adaptive, and expressive experiences – from dynamic color and enhanced accessibility, to foundations for large screen layouts and design tokens.
```

Flutter is in the process of migrating to Material 3.

{{site.alert.note}}
  A few facts about Material 3 (M3),
  the next generation of Material Design:

  * Most Flutter widgets are already migrated to M3,
    but you can follow progress on the
    [Material 3 Flutter GitHub project][] and the
    [GitHub umbrella issue][].

>   * For the latest list of Flutter's widgets that
>     are new and migrated to Material 3, see
>     [Affected widgets][].
>   * Until migration is complete, you can opt in to
>     Material 3 using the [`useMaterial3`][] property.
>     However, your UI might be inconsistent until
>     _all_ of Flutter _and_ your code is migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * You can opt in to
    Material 3 using the [`useMaterial3`][] flag.
    However, your UI might be inconsistent until
    _all_ of Flutter _and_ your code are migrated.
   * For the latest list of Flutter's widgets that
    are affected by the [`useMaterial3`][] flag, see
    [Affected widgets][].
```

>   * Some Flutter widgets have similar behavior in M2 and

Reviewer: "The vast majority of Flutter widgets..."

Author: Done

    M3, so those widget names are unchanged.

>     However, other widgets have substantially different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    However, a couple of widgets have substantially different
```

    behavior in M3, so new widgets have been created.
  * Once migration is complete, Material 3 will

>     become Flutter's default look and feel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    become the Material library's default look and feel.
```

>   * Material 2 will eventually be removed according

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Support for Material 2 will eventually be removed according
```

    to Flutter's [deprecation policy][].
{{site.alert.end}}

[Affected widgets]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/ThemeData/useMaterial3.html#affected-widgets
[deprecation policy]: {{site.url}}/resources/compatibility
[GitHub umbrella issue]: {{site.github}}//flutter/flutter/issues/91605
[demo]: https://flutter.github.io/samples/web/material_3_demo/#/

> [Material 3/Flutter GitHub project]: {{site.github}}/orgs/flutter/projects/19/views/22

Reviewer 2: To fix the link error:

```suggestion
[Material 3 Flutter GitHub project]: {{site.github}}/orgs/flutter/projects/19/views/22
```

Author: Thanks, @parlough! I had already fixed it in my local copy.

[`useMaterial3`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/ThemeData/useMaterial3.html

> To play with the Material widgets, check out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore the updated components, typography, color system and elevation support with the
```

> [interactive Material & Flutter showcase][demo]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[interactive Material 3 demo][demo]:
```

<iframe src="https://flutter.github.io/samples/web/material_3_demo/#/"

>         width="100%" height="500px" title="Material 3 Demo App"></iframe>

Reviewer: is it possible to make this a bit taller, especially for big screens? Maybe 600 or some %?

Author: Done

## More information
{:.no_toc}

To learn more about Material Design and Flutter,
check out:    

> * [Flutter Material blog and announcements][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Material.io developer documentation][]
```
